Homework 15 submission - by Andrew Hoopes

### Grade
3/3: Great job!  The question about when you need to be in interactive mode and why is a good one and we will discuss this more tomorrow. I'm not sure the answer to your Jupyter question -- this actually might be one to run by the help desk. 

1. The script queued within 30 seconds, and upon running, took only 6 seconds to run.  Forecast values were output sucessfully, although no images were displayed.  Only requesting one CPU for a short amount of time (5 minutes) likely made the wait practically nonexistent.  The Jupyter notebook queue time was longer, taking about 5 minuted to queue, despite me requesting the same amount of resources (likely because of the increased use time, could not request anything less than 1 hour).  Other script runs, which resulted in errors (reasons in Q2) took about 5 minutes to queue up.

2. During class on Thursday, I forgot to install the (unimported but required) netCDF package alongside the xarray package in my virtual environment.  This caused problems when i tried to run the code, and I initially was not able to fix them, as I could not get pip to run.  The problem was a simple one on my end.  I forgot to type interactive before attempting to edit the packages, and as a result was not doing things from the proper nodes.  Once I had logged in properly to an interactive node, I was able to install the NetCDF package.  For that reason, the most confusing part for me was understanding the structure of the system, most importantly the node you start in is not the one commands are run from.  This is counterintuitive to how I have always done things, even on university research servers, although I will probably get better here once I am more used to working in such an environment.

3.  When I tried to run the script through the Jupyter notebook server, I was getting a module not found error when trying to import xarray, even though all of the other modules were importing from my environment fine.  This problem persiste, even after verifying xarray was installed in my virtual environment and reinstalling it just in case.  I found out while troubleshooting online that Jupyter can directly install packages through cell commands; this got xarray to work, but the version it used was older (version 0.16 on Jupyter vs version 0.20 in the main environment).  I am curious as to why Jupyter was not accepting the newer version, when in theory there shouldn't be any conflicts as they are all connected to the same server, running on the same Python version.
