Homework 4 submission - by Andrew Hoopes

_________
## Grade: 
3/3: Wow really great analysis! I especially like the work you did with the histograms considering trends. You are right climatology is only of limited use to us these days: 
Two things to improve for next time: 
   1. I still don't see any markdown formatting. If you have questions about how to insert that let me know but please make sure to try out some of that next time. 
   2. Good work submitting your python script this time. Its a bit hard to follow though because the comments are still the comments from the starter code. Next time organize by question and modify the comments to be relevant to what you are doing
_________

1. This week, I forecasted a value of 90 cfs for week 1 and a value of 80 cfs for week 2.  The full reasoning, based mostly on recent trends, can be found at the bottom of this file, but discussion here will focus on the quantitative analysis behind the forecast.  Two histograms were made, one for the whole month of September, the other for the past 30 days.  The September histogram, showing the 1989-2021 climatology for the month, shows the most of the daily values clustered between 80 and 200 cfs, giving a range of most likely streamflow values for this time of year.  Quantiles were also examined for the month of September in order to support the histogram, and these quantiles reflected that clustering.  From the 10% quantile of 71 cfs, there was a relatively tight gradient up to the 80% quantile of 187 cfs, further indicating that any streamflow value should reasonably fall withing this range.  The 20%-50% sector was particularly tight in gradient, only increasing 35 cfs from 84 to 119 cfs, indicating 30% of September streamflow values fell within this relatively small range.  Although a useful starting point, climatology is not enough to make a forecast, that is why the second histogram looks at more recent trends.  A graph of the recent trends shows values clustered near the lower end of the climatological range, although streamflow has not of yet dropped below 90 cfs.  A look at the most recent days gives further details of more recent trends, and shows values hovering around 100-90 cfs for about the past week, with a slow but steady decline.

2. The variable flow_data is a numpy.ndarray.  This object, which requires the numpy package to generate, is a multidimensional, homogenous array composed of fixed-sized items.  The variables within the flow_data array also have the numpy prefix ahead of their datatype.  Unlike with lists, these values no longer have different datatypes, allowing more complicated operations to be performed on them.  Each element within the numpy array has the numpy.float64 datatype.  This is similar to the float datatype in base python, and the 54 refers to 64-bit precision.  The flow_data array has 11948 rows, one for each day from 1989-present, and 4 columns (year, month, day, and flow in cfs), for a total size of 47792 elements.

3.  For the week 1 predicted value of 90 cf/s, the recorded flow was higher than that value 715 times out of 977 total September days between 1989 and 2021, or about 73.2 of all September days in that time period.  For the week 2 predicted value of 80 cf/s, the recorded flow was higher than that value 814 times out of 977 total September days between 1989 and 2021, or about 83.3% of all September days in that time period.

4.  
Years before 2000: For the week 1 predicted value of 90 cf/s, the recorded flow was higher than that value 319 times out of 360 total September days between 1989 and 2000, or about 88.7% of all September days in that time period.  For the week 2 predicted value of 80 cf/s, the recorded flow was higher than that value 334 times out of 360 total September days between 1989 and 2000, or about 92.8% of all September days in that time period.

Years after 2010: For the week 1 predicted value of 90 cf/s, the recorded flow was higher than that value 223 times out of 347 total September days between 2010 and 2021, or about 64.3% of all September days in that time period.  For the week 2 predicted value of 80 cf/s, the recorded flow was higher than that value 265 times out of 347 total September days between 2010 and 2021, or about 76.4% of all September days in that time period.

5. Based on the averages for September 1-15 and September 16-30 calculated by the python code, streamflow slowly declines over the month of September, as the average 1989-2021 streamflow decreases from 177.4 cf/s from September 1-15 to 166.4 cf/s from September 16-30.  This makes sense looking at Arizona's climatology, as the state transitions out of the summer monsoon and into the year's second dry season.  The second half of September is also much less predictable, with a much higher standard deviation (366.6 vs 169.4).  This is likely due to the presence of tropical systems, as they can deliver lots of precipitation in an otherwise dry period of the year.

Streamflow along the Verde river has been declining, albeit much slower than I initially predicted last week.  There is a significant chance for storms over the weekend to disrupt this trend and bring a small, temporary boost to the river flow. After the weekend, dry conditions should return and the decline should resume, rapid at first and slower later on, as the river approaches and passes the state where it was prior to the weekend's storms.
